# Master's-Thesis

## Abstract
In recent years, the international crisis of energy and environment is becoming more and more serious, developing electric vehicle industry has become the consensus around the world. Power battery is the energy source of electric vehicle, accurate acquisition of its state parameters is very important for battery safety and vehicle control performance. In this paper, the lithium-ion batteries are taken as the object of study. The methods of estimating the state-of-charge and state-of-power of lithium-ion batteries are mainly studied. The main work is as follows:  
(1) The importance of battery state estimation is analyzed from the aspect of vehicle safety and control performance. Then, the definition and research status of SOC and SOP for lithium-ion batteries are introduced.  
(2) The working mechanism of lithium-ion batteries is analyzed, and the chemical reaction process inside the batteries during charging and discharging is described. A battery test platform is established, which can realize the programming of battery charging and discharging strategy, the control of battery experimental environment, the real-time measurement and storage of experimental data. Then the equivalent circuit model of the battery is established, and the parameters of the model are identified offline through the battery test. Based on this physical model, the state space equation of the battery was deduced.  
(3) The process of H-infinity algorithm based on game theory is deduced and applied to estimate the SOC of lithium-ion batteries. To overcome the slow convergence speed of H-infinity filter algorithm, the strong tracking algorithm is introduced to improve it. Finally, the SOC estimation method based on strong tracking H-infinity filter is determined. Through the experiments of NEDC, FUDS, DST and UDDS, the accuracy and robustness of SOC estimation results are demonstrated. It is proved that the strong tracking H-infinity filter algorithm can be used for SOC estimation of lithium-ion batteries effectively.  
(4) The SOP test of the battery was carried out, and the real SOP value of the battery was recorded at different voltage, SOC and temperature. By analyzing the main factors affecting the SOP of batteries, the input variables for estimating the SOP of batteries were determined.   
(5) A neural network model for SOP estimation of batteries was established, and the structure and main parameters of the model were determined. The SOP test data of batteries are divided into training set and verification set. The model is trained with the training set data, and then the SOP estimation results of the neural network are verified with the validation set data. The results show that the mean absolute error, maximum error and mean absolute percentage error of SOP estimation are all small. In addition, when the input parameters have noises, the BP neural network model can still obtain accurate SOP estimation results, which proves the validity of this method for battery SOP estimation.  
